## Beyond Feelings : A Guide to Critical Thinking

[TOC]



1. 为什么要读英文原版书？用英语。
2. 为什么要读这本书？逻辑，独立思考。

> “ Then I Will make it all by myself ”, said Little Red Hen.

3. 怎么读这本书？敢dive。

> 先不求甚解的读，然后重复的读。

Liuda学习英语的经历

```tex
《Outliers: The Story Of Success》（异类：不一样的成功启示）
两个晚上读完，很兴奋，非常好，送给身边每一个朋友。
```



##### 0. Why we need beyond feeling ?

Feeling and thought are perfectly complementary. Feeling, being more spontaneous, is an excellent beginning to the development of conclusions. And thought, being more deliberate, provides a way to identify the best and most appropriate feeling. Both are natural. Thinking, however, is less automatic than feeling. To do it well demands a systematic approach and guided practice.

```tex
complementary	互补的
spontaneous		自发的
deliberate		刻意的，深思熟虑的
identify 		识别
appropriate 	恰当的，合适的
```

First, because we live in an age of manipulation. Armies of hucksters and demagogues stand ready with the rich resources of psychology to play upon our emotions and subconscious needs to persuade us that superficial is profound, harmful is beneficial, evil is virtuous. And feelings are especially vulnerable to such manipulation.

```tex
manipulation  操控
vulnerable    易受影响的，难以抵抗的

我们生活在一个被各种广告和政治煽动者操控的时代，靠feeling很难抵抗这样的操控。

举例：
商店播放的音乐，其实会影响人的决策，比如，去商店买酒，古典音乐——贵酒，流行音乐——便宜酒，大脑潜意识会把古典音乐和高雅练习在一起。

```

Secondly, because in virtually every important area of modern life—law, medicine, government, education, science, business, and community affairs—we are beset with serious problems and complex issues that demand careful gathering and weighing of facts and informed opinions, thoughtful consideration of various conclusions or actions, and judicious selection of the best conclusion or most appropriate action.

```tex

现代生活中每一个重要的领域，都受到严重而复杂问题的困扰，这些问题需要我们仔细的搜集和权衡事实与观点，审慎的思考各种结论和行为，从而明智的选择最好的结论和最恰当的行为。

```

Beyond feeling : A Guide to Critical Thinking

```tex
王曰：寡人有疾，寡人好勇，寡人好货，寡人好色。
孟子曰：从自己-->到国家人民
```



##### 1. Who are you?

###### The Influence of Time and Place

- Not only are you a member of a particular species, Homo sapiens , but you also exist at a particular time in the history of that species and in a particular place on the planet. That time and place are defined by specific circumstances, understandings, beliefs, and customs, all of which limit your experience and influence your thought patterns.

```tex
《Why women kill》

what do you want to be wen you grow up?
I want to be a mommy.
I want to be a movie star.
I want to be a superhero.

```

-  Living in a different age or culture would make you a different person. Even if you rebelled against the values of your time and place, they still would represent the context of your life—in other words, they still would influence your responses

  ```tex
  rebelled 
  
  沙特拒绝领取诺贝尔奖，杜尚说冷话：你拒绝一件事和你接受一件事情，你都深深受这件事影响。
  

###### The Influence of Mass Culture

- Modern advertising typically bombards the public with slogans and testimonials by celebrities. This approach is designed to appeal to emotions and create artificial needs for products and services. As a result, many people develop the habit of responding emotionally, impulsively, and gullibly to such appeals. Ads often portray play as more fulfilling than work, self-gratification as more desirable than self-control, and materialism as more meaningful than idealism.

- The number of shifts within commercials ranged from 6 to 54 and averaged approximately 17 per fifteen-second commercial. The total number of attention shifts came out to over 800 per hour, or over 14 per minute.

  This manipulation has prevented many people from developing a mature attention span. They expect the classroom and the workplace to provide the same constant excitement they get from television. That, of course, is an impossible demand, and when it isn’t met they call their teachers boring and their work unfulfilling. Because such people seldom have the patience to read books that require them to think, many publishers have replaced serious books with light fare written by celebrities.

###### The Influence of Psychology

- According to Frankl, the primordial anthropological fact is that being human is being always directed, and pointing to something or someone other than oneself: to a meaning to fulfill or another human being to encounter, a cause to serve or a person to love. A person becomes fully human “by forgetting himself and giving himself, overlooking himself and focusing outward.

```tex
Frankl
追寻生命的意义《Man's search for meaning》

Maslow
人的需求模型：生理（食物和衣服），安全（工作保障），社交需要（友谊），尊重，自我实现。

Frankl 自我超越（Self-transcendence）vs Maslow 自我实现（Self-actualization）

追求自我实现，放到现实中，遇见苦难困境是常有的事，这时人会让人感觉自我实现很遥远，会很容易受挫，会把困难看成障碍，容易产生不满，陷入负面情绪中，陷入一种求而不得的痛苦中。

追求自我超越，面对困苦，会坦然迎上去，问题和困难会开启人的智慧，激发人的勇气，为解决问题而努力，心灵也会得到不停的成长。


```

- Whether we agree completely with Frankl, one thing is clear: Contemporary American culture would be markedly different if the emphasis over the past several decades had been on Frankl’s theory rather than on the theories of Maslow and the other humanistic psychologists.

###### Being an Individual



##### 02 What Is Critical Thinking?

The essence of critical thinking is evaluation. Critical thinking, therefore, may be defined as the process by which we test claims and arguments and determine which have merit and which do not. In other words, critical thinking is a search for answers, a quest . Not surprisingly, one of the most important techniques used in critical thinking is asking probing questions .

```tex
evaluation
merit 
quest 
probing 
```

###### Characteristics of Critical Thinkers

A number of misconceptions exist about critical thinking. 

- One is that being able to support beliefs with reasons makes one a critical thinker.
- Another misconception is that critical thinkers never imitate others in thought or action.
- It is also a misconception that critical thinking is synonymous with having a lot of right answers in one’s head.
- And yet another misconception is that critical thinking cannot be learned, that one either has it or does not.

We have already noted one characteristic of critical thinkers—skill in asking appropriate questions. Another is control of one’s mental activities. John Dewey once observed that more of our time than most of us care to admit is spent “trifling with mental pictures, random recollections, pleasant but unfounded hopes, flitting, half-developed impressions.” Good thinkers are no exception. However, they have learned better than poor thinkers how to stop that casual, semiconscious drift of images when they wish and how to fix their minds on one specific matter, examine it carefully, and form a judgment about it. They have learned, in other words, how to take charge of their thoughts, to use their minds actively as well as passively.

###### The Role of Intuition

- Intuition is commonly defined as immediate perception or comprehension of something—that is, sensing or understanding something without the use of reasoning.
- Breakthrough ideas favor trained, active minds. It is unusual for someone totally untrained in a subject to make a significant new discovery about it. Thus, if Kekule had been a plumber, Goethe a book-keeper, and Coleridge a hairdresser, they would almost certainly not have received the intuitions for which they are famous.



###### Avoiding Plagiarism

Step 2: As you read each source, note the ideas you want to refer to in your writing. If the author’s words are unusually clear and concise, copy them exactly and put quotation marks around them. Otherwise, paraphrase —that is, restate the author’s ideas in your own words. Write down the number(s) of the page(s) on which the author’s passage appears.If the author’s idea triggers a response in your mind—such as a question, a connection between this idea and something else you’ve read, or an experience of your own that supports or challenges what the author says—write it down and put brackets (not parentheses) around it so that “you will be able to identify it as your own when you review your notes.
